Project 1
Purpose
 - This project provides students an opportunity to practice building web pages using HTML and CSS. The skills students learn by completing this project will assist them with the other projects in this course.
Project Objectives
  After completing this project, students will be able to:
    1.	Describe the purpose of markup languages such as HTML and CSS.
    2.	Explain how HTML tags and attributes control the appearance of a web page.
    3.	Explain how CSS properties control the presentation of a Web page.
    4.	Design, develop, and publish basic web pages using HTML and CSS on a web server.
    5.	Create web pages that include headings, graphics, ordered and unordered lists, tables and hyperlinks.
    6.	Explain the differences between ordered and unordered lists.
    7.	Explain the differences between absolute and relative URLs.
    8.	Use inline, internal, and external styles to control the appearance of a web page.

Directions
  •	Review the requirements listed in the Project Requirements section
    o	Do not forget to review the material in the related modules
      	Modules 2, 3 & 4
    o	Do not forget to take advantage of the Project 1 Tech Support Forum
      	Students may receive extra credit for participating
  •	Create the web page(s) that meet(s) all of the stated requirements
    o	Students may freely use HTML and CSS code from the following sources:
      	zyBooks textbook
      	w3schools.com
    o	Students should avoid simply copying and pasting code from other sources
  •	Upload all related files to the Course Web Server
    o	Note: Students will not submit anything to Canvas.
  •	Test the web page(s) on the Course Web Server to ensure proper operation
    o	The web page(s) will be graded on how they function on the Course Web Server
  •	Finish the project before the posted due date (refer to the Course Schedule)

Required Tools
  - Students will be required to use one or more of the following tools to earn a passing grade on the project. Each of the tools listed below can be downloaded for free or already exist in the indicated operating system.
  •	Web browser
    o	Chrome or Firefox (recommended)
    o	All other browsers should be avoided during this class
  •	Plain text editor (avoid Rich Text editors)
    o	Windows
      	Notepad++
    o	Mac OS
      	TextWrangler
      	TextEdit (plain-text mode)
    o	Linux (terminal)
      	pico
      	vi
  •	Secure Shell (SSH) client
    o	Windows
      	BitVise
    o	Mac OS and Linux (terminal)
      	ssh
  •	File transfer tool (must support SFTP via SSH - DO NOT USE FTP)
    o	Windows
      	BitVise
    o	Mac OS
      	CyberDuck
      	sftp (terminal)
    o	Linux (terminal)
      	sftp






















 

